This file is where I attempt to outline yet-to-exist features, and discuss how
to implement them.

# Email

Quite possibly, our best bet for getting people to use the site is to poke them
with an email when appropriate. Possible occasions include new forum posts,
private messages, and news entries.

Before we can enable mailing, we need to implement user settings, so members
can configure what for and when they want to be mailed.

## Tech Details

I'll be using the [Pony](https://github.com/benprew/pony) gem for mail sending,
and using either HAML or ERB for mail templating. I'm partial to plaintext
email myself, so ERB is probably a better choice.

Not mentioned in the Pony docs is that you can pass an array of emails:

		Pony.mail(to: ['you@example.com','her@example.com'])

This works for the cc and bcc fields as well.

A naive guess, I'll be dumping all recipients into the To: field. I'll need to
have a read at Google's [bulk mailing
guidelines](https://support.google.com/mail/answer/81126?hl=en) so we don't end
up in every spam folder ever, and on Gmail's blacklist.

### Alternative Tech

The only real alternative is the [mail](https://github.com/mikel/mail) gem,
which does both sending and receiving. It is a fair bit more low level and
involved than Pony, which is why I choose the latter for us, since our mailing
needs are actually quite humble.

As for mail transfer, I vote for a local Postfix installation over stuff like
Gmail of SendGrid. Primarily, we already need a local Postfix, configured and
ready to send and receive. Gmail has their own rules, especially concerning
batch mail sending, and SendGrid is way overkill for sending ~20 emails once a
week.

## Gmail Actions

As documented
[here](https://developers.google.com/gmail/actions/actions/actions-overview),
gmail supports some metadata for custom actions.
